W-16716183 MuleSoft AI Chain Connector (#2706)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: mulesoft-ai-chain/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/configuring-agent-operations.adoc

= Configuring Agent Operations

> [[agent-operations]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> == Agent Define Prompt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The *Agent define prompt template* operation is essential for using specific prompt templates with your LLMs. This operation helps you define and compose AI functions using plain text. This enables the creation of natural language prompts, generating responses, extracting information, invoking other prompts, or performing any text-based task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the *Agent define prompt template* operation to use specific prompt templates with your LLMs. This allows you to create natural language prompts that generate responses, extract information, invoke other prompts, or perform any text-based task.
```

Reviewer: not sure about the operation name in the UI, I just checked the reference and apparently AGENT is capitalized. May need to double check in the UI

> === Configure the Agent Define Prompt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Configure the Agent Define Prompt Template Operation
```

> === Configure the Agent Define Prompt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure the Agent Define Prompt
```

> To configure the *Agent define prompt* operation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the *Agent define prompt template* operation:
```

include::connectors::partial$t-configure-operations.adoc[]
* *Dataset*
+
Specify the dataset for the LLM to evaluate using the provided template and instructions.
* *Template*
+
Enter the prompt template for the operation.
* *Instructions*
+
Provide the instructions for the LLM, outlining the goals of the task.

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

This is the XML for this operation:

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

  doc:name="Agent define prompt template" 
  doc:id="f1c29c39-eac9-468c-9c46-4109a66303ec" 
  config-ref="MuleChain_AI_Llm_configuration" 
  template="#[payload.template]" 
  instructions="#[payload.instructions]" 
  dataset="#[payload.dataset]"
/>
----

=== Output Configuration

This operation responds with a JSON payload containing the main LLM response. Additionally, attributes such as token usage are included as part of the metadata (attributes) but not within the main payload.

This is an example response:

[source,json]
----
{
  "response": "{\n  \"type\": \"positive\",\n  \"response\": \"Thank you for your positive feedback on the training last week. We are glad to hear that you had a great experience. Have a nice day!\"\n}"
}
----

The operation also returns attributes that aren't within the main JSON payload, which include information about token usage, for example:

[source,json]
----
{
  "tokenUsage": {
      "outputCount": 9, 
      "totalCount": 18, 
      "inputCount": 9 
  },
  "additionalAttributes": {}
}
----

* `tokenUsage` 
+
Token usage metadata returned as attributes
* `outputCount` 
+
Number of tokens used to generate the output

> * `totalCount` Total number of tokens used for input and output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `totalCount` 
+
Total number of tokens used for input and output
```

* `inputCount` 
+
Number of tokens used to process the input

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]

> * xref:index.adoc[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* xref:index.adoc[MuleSoft AI Chain Connector]
```

> * xref:mulesoft-ai-chain-connector-reference.adoc[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* xref:mulesoft-ai-chain-connector-reference.adoc[MuleSoft AI Chain Connector Reference]
```

= Configuring Agent Operations

== Configure the Agent Define Prompt Template Operation

Use the *Agent define prompt template* operation to use specific prompt templates with your LLMs. This allows you to create natural language prompts that generate responses, extract information, invoke other prompts, or perform any text-based task.

To configure the *Agent define prompt template* operation:

include::connectors::partial$t-configure-operations.adoc[]
* *Dataset*
+
Specify the dataset for the LLM to evaluate using the provided template and instructions.
* *Template*
+
Enter the prompt template for the operation.
* *Instructions*
+
Provide the instructions for the LLM, outlining the goals of the task.
This is the XML for this operation:
[source,xml,linenums, subs=attributes+]
----
<ms-chainai:agent-define-prompt-template 
  doc:name="Agent define prompt template" 
  doc:id="f1c29c39-eac9-468c-9c46-4109a66303ec" 
  config-ref="MuleChain_AI_Llm_configuration" 
  template="#[payload.template]" 
  instructions="#[payload.instructions]" 
  dataset="#[payload.dataset]"
/>
----

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

This image shows an example of the configuration for the Agent define prompt template action in Anypoint Code Builder:

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
